README.md, before:

# 🔑 Keymaster

A lightweight, agentless SSH key manager that just does the job.

## What is Keymaster?

Keymaster centralizes control of your `authorized_keys` files. Fed up with complex configuration management tools or manually scattering keys across your fleet? Keymaster is for you. It uses a simple SQLite database as the source of truth and a single "system key" per managed account to rewrite and version-control access. No agents to install on remote hosts, no complex server setup.

## Core Features

- **Modern Interactive TUI:** A beautiful and responsive terminal UI built with `lipgloss`. Features a main dashboard, filterable lists, color-coded tables, and a consistent, professional design.
- **Multi-Language Support:** The TUI is fully internationalized, with initial support for English and German.
- **Centralized Management:** A single SQLite database (`keymaster.db`) acts as the source of truth for all public keys and account assignments.
- **Agentless Deployment:** Uses standard SSH/SFTP to connect to hosts and manage `authorized_keys` files. No remote agents required.
- **Safe Key Rotation:** Features a robust system key rotation mechanism. Old keys are retained to ensure you can always regain access to hosts that were offline during a rotation.
- **Fleet-Wide Operations:** Deploy key changes or audit your entire fleet of active hosts with a single command.
- **Drift Detection:** The `audit` command quickly checks all hosts to ensure their deployed keys match the central database state.
- **Scriptable CLI:** All core features are available as command-line arguments, making Keymaster perfect for automation.
- **SSH Agent Integration:** Can use a running SSH agent (including Pageant/gpg-agent on Windows) for authentication for certain features, like remote key importing.

## A New Look

Keymaster 1.2 introduces a completely redesigned user interface to make managing your keys a pleasure.

```
      🔑 Keymaster
  An agentless SSH key manager that just does the job.

╭──────────────────────────────────────╮  ╭──────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ Navigation                           │  │ System Status                                    │
│                                      │  │                                                  │
│   ▸ Manage Accounts                  │  │ Managed Accounts: 5 (5 active)                   │
│     Manage Public Keys               │  │      Public Keys: 3 (1 global)                   │
│     Assign Keys to Accounts          │  │       System Key: Active (Serial #1)             │
│     Rotate System Keys               │  │                                                  │
│     Deploy to Fleet                  │  │                                                  │
│     View Audit Log                   │  │ Recent Activity                                  │
│     View Accounts by Tag             │  │                                                  │
│                                      │  │ 09-23 10:45  ADD_ACCOUNT      account: new@host   │
│                                      │  │ 09-23 10:44  TRUST_HOST       hostname: new@host  │
│                                      │  │ 09-23 10:42  ROTATE_SYSTEM_KEY  new_serial: 1     │
│                                      │  │ 09-23 10:40  DELETE_PUBLIC_KEY  comment: old-key  │
│                                      │  │ 09-23 10:39  ADD_PUBLIC_KEY   comment: new-key    │
╰──────────────────────────────────────╯  ╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

  j/k up/down: navigate  enter: select  q: quit
```

## Getting Started

1.  **Installation:**
    ```sh
    go install github.com/toeirei/keymaster/cmd/keymaster@latest
    ```

2.  **Initialize the Database:**
    Simply run Keymaster for the first time. It will automatically create `keymaster.db` in the current directory.
    ```sh
    keymaster
    ```

3.  **Generate System Key:**
    Inside the TUI, navigate to "Rotate System Keys" and follow the prompt to generate your initial system key. This is the key Keymaster will use to manage your hosts.

4.  **Bootstrap Your First Host:**
    Manually add the new Keymaster public key (displayed in the previous step) to the `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file of an account you want to manage.

5.  **Add the Account in Keymaster:**
    In the TUI, go to "Manage Accounts" and add the account (e.g., `root@your-server`).

6.  **Trust the Host:**
    Still in "Manage Accounts," select the new account and press `v` to verify and trust the host's public key.

You are now ready to manage this host with Keymaster!

## Usage

- **Interactive TUI (Default):**
  ```sh
  keymaster
  ```

- **Deploy to all hosts:**
  ```sh
  keymaster deploy
  ```

- **Audit the fleet for drift:**
  ```sh
  keymaster audit
  ```

- **Trust a new host:**
  ```sh
  keymaster trust-host user@new-host
  ```

- **Import keys from a file:**
  ```sh
  keymaster import /path/to/authorized_keys
  ```

## The Keymaster Philosophy

This tool was born out of frustration. Existing solutions for SSH key management often felt like using a sledgehammer to crack a nut—requiring complex configuration, server daemons, and constant management.

Keymaster is different. It's built on a simple premise:

> A tool should do the job without making you manage the tool itself.

It's designed for sysadmins and developers who want a straightforward, reliable way to control SSH access without the overhead. It's powerful enough for a fleet but simple enough for a home lab.

### A Note on Security & The System Key

Keymaster is designed for simplicity, and part of that design involves storing its own "system" private key in the database. This is what allows Keymaster to be truly agentless—it can connect to your hosts from any machine that has access to the database, without needing a separate `~/.ssh` directory.

Here's how it works and what it means for security:

*   **What is stored?** The database stores the *private* key for Keymaster's system identity and the *public* keys of all your users. User private keys are **never** seen, stored, or handled by Keymaster.
*   **What is deployed?** When you deploy, Keymaster only pushes *public* keys to the `authorized_keys` file on remote hosts.
*   **What's the risk?** The primary security consideration is the database file itself. If an attacker gains read access to your `keymaster.db` (or the equivalent in Postgres/MySQL), they will have the private key that grants access to all managed accounts.

**Treat your `keymaster.db` file as you would any sensitive secret, like a private key itself.** Ensure it has strict file permissions (e.g., `0600`) and is stored in a secure location. This trade-off—storing one private key for the sake of simplicity—is central to the Keymaster model.

### Automatic System Key Hardening

To minimize risk, Keymaster automatically applies strict restrictions to its system key upon every deployment. This prevents the key from being used for interactive shell access or other unintended purposes, even if the private key is compromised.

When deployed, the Keymaster system key in the remote `authorized_keys` file will look like this:

```
# Keymaster Managed Keys (Serial: 1)
command="internal-sftp",no-port-forwarding,no-x11-forwarding,no-agent-forwarding,no-pty ssh-ed25519 AAA... keymaster-system-key
```

This is not something you need to configure; Keymaster handles it for you to enforce the principle of least privilege.

**What these options do:**

*   `command="internal-sftp"`: This is the most important restriction. It forces the key to only be used for SFTP sessions and prevents shell command execution. Keymaster's deployment and audit logic is designed to work with this restriction.
*   `no-port-forwarding`, `no-x11-forwarding`, `no-agent-forwarding`: These disable various forms of SSH tunneling, further reducing the key's capabilities.
*   `no-pty`: Prevents the allocation of a terminal, which is not needed for SFTP.

Commit message:

update CONTRIBUTING and README with our license choice

README.md, after:

# 🔑 Keymaster

A lightweight, agentless SSH key manager that just does the job.

## What is Keymaster?

Keymaster centralizes control of your `authorized_keys` files. Fed up with complex configuration management tools or manually scattering keys across your fleet? Keymaster is for you. It uses a simple SQLite database as the source of truth and a single "system key" per managed account to rewrite and version-control access. No agents to install on remote hosts, no complex server setup.

## Core Features

- **Modern Interactive TUI:** A beautiful and responsive terminal UI built with `lipgloss`. Features a main dashboard, filterable lists, color-coded tables, and a consistent, professional design.
- **Multi-Language Support:** The TUI is fully internationalized, with initial support for English and German.
- **Centralized Management:** A single SQLite database (`keymaster.db`) acts as the source of truth for all public keys and account assignments.
- **Agentless Deployment:** Uses standard SSH/SFTP to connect to hosts and manage `authorized_keys` files. No remote agents required.
- **Safe Key Rotation:** Features a robust system key rotation mechanism. Old keys are retained to ensure you can always regain access to hosts that were offline during a rotation.
- **Fleet-Wide Operations:** Deploy key changes or audit your entire fleet of active hosts with a single command.
- **Drift Detection:** The `audit` command quickly checks all hosts to ensure their deployed keys match the central database state.
- **Scriptable CLI:** All core features are available as command-line arguments, making Keymaster perfect for automation.
- **SSH Agent Integration:** Can use a running SSH agent (including Pageant/gpg-agent on Windows) for authentication for certain features, like remote key importing.

## A New Look

Keymaster 1.2 introduces a completely redesigned user interface to make managing your keys a pleasure.

```
      🔑 Keymaster
  An agentless SSH key manager that just does the job.

╭──────────────────────────────────────╮  ╭──────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ Navigation                           │  │ System Status                                    │
│                                      │  │                                                  │
│   ▸ Manage Accounts                  │  │ Managed Accounts: 5 (5 active)                   │
│     Manage Public Keys               │  │      Public Keys: 3 (1 global)                   │
│     Assign Keys to Accounts          │  │       System Key: Active (Serial #1)             │
│     Rotate System Keys               │  │                                                  │
│     Deploy to Fleet                  │  │                                                  │
│     View Audit Log                   │  │ Recent Activity                                  │
│     View Accounts by Tag             │  │                                                  │
│                                      │  │ 09-23 10:45  ADD_ACCOUNT      account: new@host   │
│                                      │  │ 09-23 10:44  TRUST_HOST       hostname: new@host  │
│                                      │  │ 09-23 10:42  ROTATE_SYSTEM_KEY  new_serial: 1     │
│                                      │  │ 09-23 10:40  DELETE_PUBLIC_KEY  comment: old-key  │
│                                      │  │ 09-23 10:39  ADD_PUBLIC_KEY   comment: new-key    │
╰──────────────────────────────────────╯  ╰──────────────────────────────────────────────────╯

  j/k up/down: navigate  enter: select  q: quit
```

## Getting Started

1.  **Installation:**
    ```sh
    go install github.com/toeirei/keymaster/cmd/keymaster@latest
    ```

2.  **Initialize the Database:**
    Simply run Keymaster for the first time. It will automatically create `keymaster.db` in the current directory.
    ```sh
    keymaster
    ```

3.  **Generate System Key:**
    Inside the TUI, navigate to "Rotate System Keys" and follow the prompt to generate your initial system key. This is the key Keymaster will use to manage your hosts.

4.  **Bootstrap Your First Host:**
    Manually add the new Keymaster public key (displayed in the previous step) to the `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file of an account you want to manage.

5.  **Add the Account in Keymaster:**
    In the TUI, go to "Manage Accounts" and add the account (e.g., `root@your-server`).

6.  **Trust the Host:**
    Still in "Manage Accounts," select the new account and press `v` to verify and trust the host's public key.

You are now ready to manage this host with Keymaster!

## Usage

- **Interactive TUI (Default):**
  ```sh
  keymaster
  ```

- **Deploy to all hosts:**
  ```sh
  keymaster deploy
  ```

- **Audit the fleet for drift:**
  ```sh
  keymaster audit
  ```

- **Trust a new host:**
  ```sh
  keymaster trust-host user@new-host
  ```

- **Import keys from a file:**
  ```sh
  keymaster import /path/to/authorized_keys
  ```

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

### Third-Party Licenses

Keymaster utilizes several third-party libraries, each with its own license. All dependency licenses are permissive and compatible with the MIT License. For a detailed list of dependencies and their license texts, please see the `NOTICE.md` file.

## The Keymaster Philosophy

This tool was born out of frustration. Existing solutions for SSH key management often felt like using a sledgehammer to crack a nut—requiring complex configuration, server daemons, and constant management.

Keymaster is different. It's built on a simple premise:

> A tool should do the job without making you manage the tool itself.

It's designed for sysadmins and developers who want a straightforward, reliable way to control SSH access without the overhead. It's powerful enough for a fleet but simple enough for a home lab.

### A Note on Security & The System Key

Keymaster is designed for simplicity, and part of that design involves storing its own "system" private key in the database. This is what allows Keymaster to be truly agentless—it can connect to your hosts from any machine that has access to the database, without needing a separate `~/.ssh` directory.

Here's how it works and what it means for security:

*   **What is stored?** The database stores the *private* key for Keymaster's system identity and the *public* keys of all your users. User private keys are **never** seen, stored, or handled by Keymaster.
*   **What is deployed?** When you deploy, Keymaster only pushes *public* keys to the `authorized_keys` file on remote hosts.
*   **What's the risk?** The primary security consideration is the database file itself. If an attacker gains read access to your `keymaster.db` (or the equivalent in Postgres/MySQL), they will have the private key that grants access to all managed accounts.

**Treat your `keymaster.db` file as you would any sensitive secret, like a private key itself.** Ensure it has strict file permissions (e.g., `0600`) and is stored in a secure location. This trade-off—storing one private key for the sake of simplicity—is central to the Keymaster model.

### Automatic System Key Hardening

To minimize risk, Keymaster automatically applies strict restrictions to its system key upon every deployment. This prevents the key from being used for interactive shell access or other unintended purposes, even if the private key is compromised.

When deployed, the Keymaster system key in the remote `authorized_keys` file will look like this:

```
# Keymaster Managed Keys (Serial: 1)
command="internal-sftp",no-port-forwarding,no-x11-forwarding,no-agent-forwarding,no-pty ssh-ed25519 AAA... keymaster-system-key
```

This is not something you need to configure; Keymaster handles it for you to enforce the principle of least privilege.

**What these options do:**

*   `command="internal-sftp"`: This is the most important restriction. It forces the key to only be used for SFTP sessions and prevents shell command execution. Keymaster's deployment and audit logic is designed to work with this restriction.
*   `no-port-forwarding`, `no-x11-forwarding`, `no-agent-forwarding`: These disable various forms of SSH tunneling, further reducing the key's capabilities.
*   `no-pty`: Prevents the allocation of a terminal, which is not needed for SFTP.
